Author : Itzel Martinez

CODE2040 API CHALLENGE REFLECTION 
========================

As I began this challenge I was a little afraid that I would not be able 
to complete it due to my lack of experience with API's.
I am fairly new to the world of Computer Science as it was not until 
my freshman year of college that I learned about this field. But it was 
also during my first year of college that I learned I had a passion for Computer Science
I worked my hardest to complete this challenge and it has been a very rewarding experience.

This challenge has not taught me about how connecting and 
retrieving information from an API works but it has also taught me about myself,  
and the way in which I go about completing a project. 
This is the first project that I have started from scratch. Most of the projects I have worked
on have exisiting files that I could work off and so most classes and methods have been already 
organized. I mention this because working on this challenge has been very helpful in determining
my style of organizing a project, classes and figuring out which methods I feel are important to my project.
I had also never worked with an API before, I honestly didn't really know what an API was and so 
that is how I began this challenge, the first step was to learn whan an API was. 
Personally, this challenge was difficult and lengthy but it was a very valuable experience. 

The following are just some of the lessons that I learned throughout the challenge. 
I learned that it is not easy to learn things on your own but is often the best way to learn.
Another thing that I learned is how important attention to detail is. I say this because 
a small detail that I bypassed for phase 0 of the challenge, the registration portion held me back.
I spent hours trying to figure out why my registration wasn't going through to the server. 
The cause of my error turned out to be a very small but a very important part of the registration.
My mistake was that I put the string "Email" inside my JSON dictionary instead of "email", which
was the correct string to include, and "Github" instead of "github", and because of this small
mistake I spent hours trying to register my code to the API. I know this is very silly of me
and it was frustrating too, but because of this mistake I have now learned a very very
valuable lesson. The lesson is that whenever you are working on a project make
sure that you follow the spec word by word, literally, and that attention to detail is of critical importance. 

I have also learned a lot about how classes work within a package and feel like I finally
understand why the material we learn in my Computer Science courses are so important. 

This challenge has helped me grow a lot as a Computer Scientist and has motivated me to
continue working on projects of my own, which I am super excited to start. 
This is a small summary of my code2040 API Challenge experience. 


